README.md, before:

# telegram-json-ui

Web UI with search and navigation for Telegram chat / channel dump (export) from JSON

## Demo

- https://telegram-json-ui.netlify.app


## Stack

- [SvelteKit](https://kit.svelte.dev/)


### Svelte components

- `<VirtualList>` for fast rendering large message dumps


### Run for local dev or deploy for production

- [PM2](https://pm2.keymetrics.io/docs/usage/quick-start/)
- [Netlify](https://docs.netlify.com/configure-builds/common-configurations/sveltekit/)


## Requriments

1. PM2 to run SvelteKit app in background:

`pnpm install pm2@latest -g` (or use npm)


## Quick start

1. `git clone <this repo>`

2. `cd telegram-json-ui/frontend/sveltekit`

3. `pnpm i` (or use `npm`)

4. `./start`

If you see port error, change it in `start` script


## Telegram messages JSON-dump source

- While this is a proof of concept, we put exported directory with dump in SvelteKit ./static dir
- See demo input JSON there: https://telegram-json-ui.netlify.app/example/telegram-test-json/result.json
- See TODO: JSON-dump upload feature

## How to export Telegram chat

- [Telegram desktop clients for your OS](https://desktop.telegram.org/)
- [About Telegram Chat Export Tool](https://telegram.org/blog/export-and-more)


## Original idea

- https://t.me/ruarxivechat/838


## More about digital archiving

- https://github.com/ruarxive


## TODO

### Search

- [x] Search Messages with Plain Text
- [x] Search by Author of Message or Action
- [x] Search by Actions
- [ ] Search beetween dates interval
- [ ] Search with logical conditions

### Render messages (chat UI)

- [x] Display Messages in Plain Text
- [x] Display Actions
- [ ] Display Media: Stickers
- [ ] Display Media: Images
- [ ] Display Media: Video
- [ ] Display Media: GIFs
- [ ] Display Media: Files
- [ ] Display Avatars of conversation members (users and bots)

### MVP ready for production checklist

- [ ] JSON-dump upload feature
- [ ] Mobile-first & adaptive UI


### Dev

- [ ] Don't make Netlify builds if no changes in SvelteKit dir

### Low-priority

- [ ] Save fragment to JSON
- [ ] Save fragment to HTML
- [ ] Search index (?)

Commit message:

feat: links to see demo input in JSON and HTML

README.md, after:

# telegram-json-ui

Web UI with search and navigation for Telegram chat / channel dump (export) from JSON

## Demo

- https://telegram-json-ui.netlify.app
- See demo input JSON there: https://telegram-json-ui.netlify.app/example/telegram-test-json/result.json
- And see as it originally rendered in HTML: https://telegram-json-ui.netlify.app/example/telegram-test-html/messages.html


## Stack

- [SvelteKit](https://kit.svelte.dev/)


### Svelte components

- `<VirtualList>` for fast rendering large message dumps


### Run for local dev or deploy for production

- [PM2](https://pm2.keymetrics.io/docs/usage/quick-start/)
- [Netlify](https://docs.netlify.com/configure-builds/common-configurations/sveltekit/)


## Requriments

1. PM2 to run SvelteKit app in background:

`pnpm install pm2@latest -g` (or use npm)


## Quick start

1. `git clone <this repo>`

2. `cd telegram-json-ui/frontend/sveltekit`

3. `pnpm i` (or use `npm`)

4. `./start`

If you see port error, change it in `start` script


## Telegram messages JSON-dump source

- While this is a proof of concept, we put exported directory with dump in SvelteKit ./static dir
- See demo input JSON there: https://telegram-json-ui.netlify.app/example/telegram-test-json/result.json
- And see as it originally rendered in HTML: https://telegram-json-ui.netlify.app/example/telegram-test-html/messages.html
- See TODO: JSON-dump upload feature

## How to export Telegram chat

- [Telegram desktop clients for your OS](https://desktop.telegram.org/)
- [About Telegram Chat Export Tool](https://telegram.org/blog/export-and-more)


## Original idea

- https://t.me/ruarxivechat/838


## More about digital archiving

- https://github.com/ruarxive


## TODO

### Search

- [x] Search Messages with Plain Text
- [x] Search by Author of Message or Action
- [x] Search by Actions
- [ ] Search beetween dates interval
- [ ] Search with logical conditions

### Render messages (chat UI)

- [x] Display Messages in Plain Text
- [x] Display Actions
- [ ] Display Media: Stickers
- [ ] Display Media: Images
- [ ] Display Media: Video
- [ ] Display Media: GIFs
- [ ] Display Media: Files
- [ ] Display Avatars of conversation members (users and bots)

### MVP ready for production checklist

- [ ] JSON-dump upload feature
- [ ] Mobile-first & adaptive UI


### Dev

- [ ] Don't make Netlify builds if no changes in SvelteKit dir

### Low-priority

- [ ] Save fragment to JSON
- [ ] Save fragment to HTML
- [ ] Search index (?)
